GetCleanDataProject
===================

The R script run_analysis.R is the main program to clean and tidy 
the data collected from smartphones, for the objective of human 
activity recognition. 

1. How the script processes the data?

The script takes in a relative root directory path that points 
to the data (e.g. UCI HAR Dataset), as a function argument.
The data set is split into a training and a test subsets,
each comprised of a subject id, an activity label, and a 561
element, feature vector.

In the first step the train and test data files are read
in from their respective folders under the root directory.
For each train and test, the data is column combined to form
a data frame for each.

Next, I read in the feature definitions (from features.txt)
into a data frame, followed by creating a logical vector, using
the R's grepl function for selecting features that contain any of 
'mean' or 'std' in their descriptive string. I then subset
both the train and test data frames by the logical vector
obtained.

Then, I combine the pruned train and test data frames, row
wise, into a single data frame. Original column names are further
cleaned up, specifically removing instances of open and close 
parens (e.g. ()). Subsequently, the numerical activity 
labels are substituted with the descriptive version fetched from
activity_labels.txt.

Finally, I split the data frame by subject id, and for each
by an activity label, and compute the mean for each of the
tidy, feature vector elements. The tidy data set is written
out to a text file.

2. What assumptions have been made?

In extracting the subset of features that pertain to any of
of mean or standard deviation measurements, I unifromly
searched for the 'mean|std' pattern in the feature name. This
could certainly be improved with a broader regular expression,
and further filter out instances of 'meanFreq' and 'stdFreq'
from the feature vector.

3. Why things were done a certain way?

I considered initially removing the hyphens (-) from column 
names to better comply with data naming conventions. I ended
up leaving them in to improve the clarity of a name that is
already composed of a handful of abbreviated words. For a
similar reason, I found lowering the case of column names
less compelling.

The tidy data has the first two columns in the order of SubjectId 
followed by ActivityLabel. I found this to be more intuitive, rather
than the original swapped version that is generated by the plyr
aggregate function.

4. Where did the original data obtained?

5. How to run the script?

- Set the working directory to the parent folder of the data set folder.
- source("run_analysis.R")
- library(plyr)
- run_analysis("UCI HAR Dataset")
- The script produces the tidy data set file "UCI HAR Tidy Dataset.txt" 
in the root directory.